---
layout: post
title: "Writing"
date: 2020-02-16
---
I would be lying if I said I do not struggle with writing.  Despite my love for writing and reading, I sometimes struggle with putting basic sentences together.  Perhaps “struggle” to put “basic sentences” might be a bit over exaggerated. However, that is not to say that I do not read over an email a few times before I hit “send” to make sure sentences are grammatically correct and the subject-verb agreements are, indeed, in agreement.  I did not know how bad my writing was until I went to graduate school where my professors (finally) called me out on my writing.  I remember one professor commented on my final research paper.  He wrote that he was amazed at the basic findings of my work—some of which were surprising to him.  “You writing needs work, though,” he wrote. 

I thought it was quite contradictory that, despite being an avid reader since childhood, my grammar and spelling still needed help.  Then, I realized I simply was not paying 100% attention to what I was reading.  I was not taking note of writing styles and diction from many great writers.  I was not paying attention to how words were spelled, or how sentences were put together. My eyes read over the sentences, but probably did so too quickly.   Now, I read much, much slower.  I take reading and writing a lot more seriously compared to before. 

When I was in graduate school, I lived in New Orleans.  There, I began following the work of Ryan Holiday, who strangely enough, lived only a couple of blocks away from me in the Garden District while he was still in the beginnings of his writing career. He also said that he wrote <i>Trust Me, I’m Lying</i> at the [Tulane library](https://medium.com/the-mission/best-selling-author-ryan-holiday-on-notecards-mornings-and-the-work-a3d4dd61aaf0). 

I was also found at the Tulane library during that time. Usually, I was reading and writing my dissertation prospectus where the political science books were. (I believe they are on the third floor of the library, if my memory serves me well).  It is really interesting to see that Ryan Holiday is now a <i>New York Times</i> best selling author since his days in the Garden District. At any rate, I learned from people like Ryan Holiday to take a more active approach to reading, such as through the use of marginalia. Since then, I’ve also used the [note card system](https://ryanholiday.net/how-and-why-to-keep-a-commonplace-book/).  I take an active approach to reading now, whether I am reading a fiction book, academic journal article, or a small article from someone’s blog.  

I believe taking a more active approach to reading allows me to hyper-focus, and pay close attention to writing structure and style.  

I remember after watching the moving <i>RBG</i> I came across an article by Ruth Bader Ginsburg in the New York Times after searching Justice’s Ginsburg [advice for living](https://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/02/opinion/sunday/ruth-bader-ginsburgs-advice-for-living.html). 

Justice Ginsburg always credits Vladimir Nabokov, her professor of European Literature while at Cornell University, for teaching her how to write.  I am currently reading <i>My Own Words</i>, a book that complies some of Justice Ginsburg’s writing and speeches.  I try to pay attention to her writing style and phrasing, including word placement—which she learned from Nabokov’s teaching.  

Good writing and learning how to read well both take a lot of practice.  It also requires a lot of patience, and learning to be uncomfortable at times.  Taking a slower approach to reading and writing was not an easy habit for me to get into, but once I did, I made more connections.  I can’t even imagine how many connections and important points I missed before I learned to read slower. 

